---
layout: post
lang: en
title:  Unveiling our 2020 vision
date:   2020-01-06
author: satoshua
permalink: /blog/2020-vision/
categories: test
excerpt: 'The Veil Project is well poised for a new frontier, laser focused on fulfilling our mission with unprecedented clarity and an unwavering sense of purpose.'
description: 'Presenting the Veil vision for 2020 and beyond.'
---

Consider this our manifesto, an open letter to ‘surveillance capitalism’ and its proponents, a pledge to undermine big tech’s treatment of your data like it’s nothing more than a dirty commodity.

As part of our restructuring and reflections on year one, we’ve dedicated ourselves to gaining a deep understanding of the ‘privacy problem’ and its implications. We’re laying the foundations for a future where autonomy, freedom of choice, and ultimately the human experience, are still possible.

## The problem

Data breaches are a multi-trillion dollar liability worsening uncontrollably.

Let’s take for example a [study conducted by Breach Level Index](https://www.gemalto.com/press/pages/data-breaches-compromised-4-5-billion-records-in-first-half-of-2018.aspx), whereby 4.5 billion data records were compromised in just the first half of 2018. Alarmingly 83% pertained to identity theft and a further 11% direct financial access, but far more concerning was the lack of protection.

*Only 2.2% of the breached data was encrypted...*

According to Visa, each year **$17 trillion in consumer payments are still made in cash or cheques**.

So what happens when they’re forced to go digital?

## The solution

As we careen toward the digital dystopia of a cashless society, it’s our mission to empower people with an **encrypted equivalent of the cash economy**, where privacy is the most convenient choice.

Everything we have planned, and from herein, every decision we make, will be thought-out with our core objectives in mind:

1. Reliable network of miners and stakers
2. Truly private and decentralised exchange
3. Stable and convenient merchant acceptance
4. Growth of community through additional utility

Think of Veil as cash for an ecosystem of encrypted economies where you can earn, trade, and spend privately, securely, and conveniently; one where the consumer experience is frictionless and businesses benefit from less liability; 
a thoughtful and validated solution to a problem that’s [becoming too big to solve](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/30/technology/facebook-privacy-apple-tim-cook.html).

## Updated roadmap

Now we have a solid framework from which our team can be truly mission driven, an updated roadmap is in progress, which as we continue to deliver on our strategy, will play an important role in keeping the community informed.

In the immediate term we are preparing for the release of our year one review, the launch of our merchandise store, and commencing trading on a number of very reputable exchanges we are delighted to have partnered with.

As part of our commitment to transparency, community, and accountability, we will soon publish the very first episode of Veil Radio. Our podcast will ‘lift the veil’ to discuss our progress and developments, allow us to host Q&As accepting questions via Discord and even listener call-ins, and keep you up to date with the latest in privacy.

Most importantly we will deliver on our migration to RingCT, a brand new design for the core wallet, a separate lite wallet, and the updated PoW algorithms. Together these pave the way for exciting partner products, additional utility for the Veil network itself, and ultimately our SuperSonic privacy protocol.

## Closing words

Let's make 2020 the year that the world sees surveillance capitalism for what it truly is—the manipulation and exploitation of people in the name of profit.

Here’s to our vision of an open, secure, and decentralised surveillance-free digital economy.

You can help us with unveiling our 2020 vision by [clicking here](https://ctt.ac/3N7Ke) to tweet our mission and by [subscribing to Veil Radio](https://anchor.fm/veilradio/) (make sure you [listen carefully](https://youtu.be/utKhq-cHOCU)).

`#Veil2020Vision`