collections/_faqs/15-stealthadresses.md, before:

---
title: How do stealth addresses work?
ref: stealth_addresses
---
Stealth addresses allow you to publicly post a static receiving address without anyone being able to see the associated transaction history. This is a big improvement over traditional Bitcoin addresses.

To preserve privacy in traditional Bitcoin addresses the receiver has to be careful to never link himself to any of his addresses and preferably generate a new address after every transaction. 

With stealth addresses the receiver does not have to worry about generating a new address after every transaction, or having his name tied to his receiving address. 
This is achieved by deriving a new one-time public key as the destination for every transaction using the receivers address and random data generated by the sender. 
This makes it impossible to link any output (the one-time public key) back to the receiving address, allowing users to have a static receiving address linked to their name, without revealing their transactions.

Commit message:

Major website refresh (roadmap, FAQs, mining, wallets) (#93)
* Update 2026: site refresh, roadmap, wallets, exchanges

* Content and roadmap cleanup across site

* Content updates and cleanup

* update typo and remove bulletproof error

---------

Co-authored-by: MacMini <m4_mini@MacMinis-Mac-mini.local>

collections/_faqs/15-stealthadresses.md, after:

---
title: How do stealth addresses work?
ref: stealth_addresses
---
Stealth addresses allow users to share a single, static receiving address without exposing their transaction history. Unlike traditional Bitcoin addresses, where all incoming transactions are publicly linkable, stealth addresses prevent third parties from associating payments with a known address.

With Bitcoin-style addresses, preserving privacy requires careful address management, such as generating a new address for every transaction and avoiding any public association with those addresses.

Stealth addresses remove this burden. For each payment, the sender derives a unique one time public key using the recipient’s stealth address and random data. This one time destination cannot be linked back to the recipient’s public address on-chain, making it effectively impossible to trace payments to a single identity.

As a result, users can safely publish a static receiving address without revealing their transaction history or compromising privacy.
